docs/source/guides/performance/index.rst, before:

.. _performanceMetrics:

Understanding the Performance Metrics
#######################################


Autosubmit computes metrics to measure experiment performance. Besides the
usual metrics, *Simulated Years Per Day* (SYPD), *Core Hours per Simulated
Year* (CHSY), and *Joules Per Simulated Year* (JPSY), it also calculates two
variations of SYPD, *Post Simulated Years Per Day* (PSYPD) and *Workflow
Simulated Years Per Day* (WSYPD).

Metrics Definition
==================

Each experiment has defined a `Parallelization` variable (estimation is defined below), :math:`k`, which is the
number of requested *Processing Elements* (PE), and the number of simulated
years parameter, :math:`y`, calculated from `CHUNK_SIZE`, :math:`c_s`, and
`CHUNK_UNIT`.

- If `CHUNK_UNIT = year`, :math:`y = c_s`
- If `CHUNK_UNIT = month`, :math:`y = \frac{c_s}{12}`
- If `CHUNK_UNIT = day`, :math:`y = \frac{c_s}{365}`
- If `CHUNK_UNIT = hour`, :math:`y = \frac{c_s}{8760}`

Let :math:`I` be the set of SIM jobs whose state is `COMPLETED`. For each job :math:`i \in I` the following attributes are taken into
account:

- time in seconds in queue, :math:`q_i`
- runtime in seconds, :math:`r_i`
- energy consumption in joules, :math:`\eta_i`

Let :math:`C` be the set of SIM jobs that are `COMPLETED`. 

Let :math:`P` be the set of POST jobs that are `COMPLETED`.

Let :math:`W` be the set of jobs that are `COMPLETED` and are from the critical path. For each job :math:`i \in W` the following attributes are taken into
account:

- time in seconds in queue, :math:`q_i`
- runtime in seconds, :math:`r_i`

**Experiment's Post Simulated Years Per Day**: :math:`PSYPD = \frac{\sum_{i \in C} y_i \cdot 86400}{\sum_{i \in C} (q_i + r_i) + \frac{1}{|P|}\sum_{j \in P}(q_j+r_j)}`

.. important:: This metric was previously known as Actual Simulated Years Per Day.

**Experiment's Queue Simulated Years Per Day**: :math:`QSYPD = \frac{\sum_{i \in C} y_i \cdot 86400}{\sum_{i \in C} (q_i + r_i)}`

**Experiment's Workflow Simulated Years Per Day**: :math:`WSYPD = \frac{\sum_{i \in C} y_i \cdot 86400}{\sum_{i \in W} (q_i + r_i)}`

WSYPD represents the effective throughput of the experiment's workflow.

.. important:: This metric was previously known as Real Simulated Years Per Day.

**Experiment's Ideal Workflow Simulated Years Per Day**: :math:`IWSYPD = \frac{\sum_{i \in C} y_i \cdot 86400}{\sum_{i \in W} (r_i)}`

IWSYPD represents the ideal throughput of the workflow under optimal conditions where 
the queue time of each job is not included.

Generalization of SYPD and PSYPD
================================

AutosubmitAPI can also compute SYPD and PSYPD for any job that has a `chunk` value.
These jobs share the same attributes as SIM jobs. Only `COMPLETED` jobs are considered.

**Generalized Simulated Years Per Day**: :math:`SYPD_i = \frac{y_i \cdot 86400}{r_i}`

As for PSYPD, it will only consider experiments that have at least one POST
job.

**Generalized Post Simulated Years Per Day**: :math:`PSYPD_i = \frac{y_i \cdot 86400}{(q_i + r_i) + \frac{1}{|P|}\sum_{j \in P}(q_j+r_j)}`

Parallelization estimation
==========================

.. code-block:: python

    if NODES is None:
        if TASKS is not None and PROCESSORS != TASKS:
            NODES = ROUNDUP(PROCESSORS/TASKS)
            if PROCESSORS_PER_NODE is not None:
                PEs = NODES * PROCESSORS_PER_NODE
            else:
                ERROR(MISSING PROCESSORS_PER_NODE)
        elif PROCESSORS_PER_NODE is not None and PROCESSORS > PROCESSORS_PER_NODE:
            PEs = NHMPN(PROCESSORS)
        else:
            PEs = PROCESSORS  # PEs could not be totally accurate but we don't know how many PROCESSORS_PER_NODE
    else:
        if NODES > 1 and PROCESSORS_PER_NODE is not None:
            PEs = NODES * PROCESSORS_PER_NODE
        elif NODES > 1:
            ERROR(MISSING PROCESSORS_PER_NODE)
        else:
            PEs = PROCESSORS

Commit message:

Enhance aesthetic of the new performance metrics documentation.

docs/source/guides/performance/index.rst, after:

.. _performanceMetrics:

Understanding the Performance Metrics
#######################################


Autosubmit computes metrics to measure experiment performance. Besides the
usual metrics, *Simulated Years Per Day* (SYPD), *Core Hours per Simulated
Year* (CHSY), and *Joules Per Simulated Year* (JPSY), it also calculates two
variations of SYPD, *Post Simulated Years Per Day* (PSYPD) and *Workflow
Simulated Years Per Day* (WSYPD).

Metrics Definition
==================

Each experiment has defined a `Parallelization` variable (estimation is defined below), :math:`k`, which is the
number of requested *Processing Elements* (PE), and the number of simulated
years parameter, :math:`y`, calculated from `CHUNK_SIZE`, :math:`c_s`, and
`CHUNK_UNIT`.

- If `CHUNK_UNIT = year`, :math:`y = c_s`
- If `CHUNK_UNIT = month`, :math:`y = \frac{c_s}{12}`
- If `CHUNK_UNIT = day`, :math:`y = \frac{c_s}{365}`
- If `CHUNK_UNIT = hour`, :math:`y = \frac{c_s}{8760}`

Let :math:`I` be the set of SIM jobs whose state is `COMPLETED`. For each job :math:`i \in I` the following attributes are taken into
account:

- time in seconds in queue, :math:`q_i`
- runtime in seconds, :math:`r_i`
- energy consumption in joules, :math:`\eta_i`

Let :math:`C` be the set of SIM jobs that are `COMPLETED`. 

Let :math:`P` be the set of POST jobs that are `COMPLETED`.

Let :math:`W` be the set of jobs that are `COMPLETED` and are from the experiment's critical path. For each job :math:`i \in W` the following attributes are taken into
account:

- time in seconds in queue, :math:`q_i`
- runtime in seconds, :math:`r_i`

**Experiment's Queue Simulated Years Per Day**: :math:`QSYPD = \frac{\sum_{i \in C} y_i \cdot 86400}{\sum_{i \in C} (q_i + r_i)}`

**Experiment's Post Simulated Years Per Day**: :math:`PSYPD = \frac{\sum_{i \in C} y_i \cdot 86400}{\sum_{i \in C} (q_i + r_i) + \frac{1}{|P|}\sum_{j \in P}(q_j+r_j)}`

.. important:: This metric was previously known as Actual Simulated Years Per Day.

WSYPD represents the real performance of the experiment's workflow.

**Experiment's Workflow Simulated Years Per Day**: :math:`WSYPD = \frac{\sum_{i \in C} y_i \cdot 86400}{\sum_{i \in W} (q_i + r_i)}`

.. important:: This metric was previously known as Real Simulated Years Per Day.

IWSYPD represents the ideal performance of the workflow under optimal conditions where 
the queue time of each job is not considered.

**Experiment's Ideal Workflow Simulated Years Per Day**: :math:`IWSYPD = \frac{\sum_{i \in C} y_i \cdot 86400}{\sum_{i \in W} (r_i)}`

Generalization of SYPD, QSYPD and PSYPD
=======================================

AutosubmitAPI can also compute SYPD and PSYPD for any job that has a `chunk` value.
These jobs share the same attributes as SIM jobs. Only `COMPLETED` jobs are considered.

**Generalized Simulated Years Per Day**: :math:`SYPD_i = \frac{y_i \cdot 86400}{r_i}`

**Generalized Queue Simulated Years Per Day**: :math:`QSYPD_i = \frac{y_i \cdot 86400}{(q_i + r_i)}`

As for PSYPD, it will only consider experiments that have at least one POST
job.

**Generalized Post Simulated Years Per Day**: :math:`PSYPD_i = \frac{y_i \cdot 86400}{(q_i + r_i) + \frac{1}{|P|}\sum_{j \in P}(q_j+r_j)}`

.. important:: This metric was previously known as Generalized Actual Simulated Years Per Day.

Parallelization estimation
==========================

.. code-block:: python

    if NODES is None:
        if TASKS is not None and PROCESSORS != TASKS:
            NODES = ROUNDUP(PROCESSORS/TASKS)
            if PROCESSORS_PER_NODE is not None:
                PEs = NODES * PROCESSORS_PER_NODE
            else:
                ERROR(MISSING PROCESSORS_PER_NODE)
        elif PROCESSORS_PER_NODE is not None and PROCESSORS > PROCESSORS_PER_NODE:
            PEs = NHMPN(PROCESSORS)
        else:
            PEs = PROCESSORS  # PEs could not be totally accurate but we don't know how many PROCESSORS_PER_NODE
    else:
        if NODES > 1 and PROCESSORS_PER_NODE is not None:
            PEs = NODES * PROCESSORS_PER_NODE
        elif NODES > 1:
            ERROR(MISSING PROCESSORS_PER_NODE)
        else:
            PEs = PROCESSORS
